Add decorators doc; update properties doc. (#999)
Polymer/lit-element: docs/_guide/decorators.md

class MyElement extends LitElement {

 // Declare observed properties
 @property()
 adjective = 'awesome';

 // Define the element's template
 render() {
   return html`<p>your ${this.adjective} template here</p>`;
 }
}
```

The `@customElement` decorator defines a custom element, equivalent to calling:

```js
customElements.define('my-element', MyElement);
```

The `@property` decorator declares a reactive property. The lines:

```js
 @property()
 adjective = 'awesome';
```

Are equivalent to:

```js
static get properties() {
  return {
    adjective: {}
  };
}

constructor() {
  this.adjective = awesome;
}
```

## Enabling decorators

To use decorators, you need to use a compiler such as Babel or the TypeScript compiler.

<div class="alert alert-info">

**The decorators proposal**. Decorators are a [stage 2 proposal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-decorators) for addition to the ECMAScript standard, which means they're neither finalized nor implemented in browsers yet. Compilers like Babel and TypeScript provide support for proposed features like decorators by compiling them into standard JavaScript a browser can run.

</div>

### To use decorators with TypeScript

> To use decorators with [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/home.html), enable the `experimentalDecorators` compiler option.

Author: 👍

---
layout: guide
title: Using decorators
slug: decorators
---

Decorators are special declarations that you can use when defining classes, class methods, and class fields. LitElement supplies a set of decorators that reduce the amount of boilerplate code you need to write when defining a component. 

For example, the `customElement` and `property` decorators make a basic element definition more compact:

```js
import {LitElement, html, customElement, property} from 'lit-element';

@customElement('my-element')
class MyElement extends LitElement {

 // Declare observed properties
 @property()
 adjective = 'awesome';

 // Define the element's template
 render() {

>    return html`<p>your ${adjective} template here</p>`;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   return html`<p>your ${this.adjective} template here</p>`;
```

**The decorators proposal**. Decorators are a stage 2 proposal for addition to the ECMAScript standard, which means they're not implemented in browsers yet. Compilers like Babel provide support for proposed features like decorators by compiling them into JavaScript a browser can run.

</div>

### To use decorators with TypeScript

To use decorators with TypeScript, enable the `experimentalDecorators` compiler option.

```json
"experimentalDecorators": true,
```

Enabling `emitDecoratorMetadata` is not required and not recommended.

### To use decorators with JavaScript

If you're  JavaScript with Babel, you can enable decorators by adding  the following plugins:

*   [`@babel/plugin-proposal-decorators`](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/babel-plugin-proposal-decorators). 
*   [`@babel/plugin-proposal-class-properties`](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/babel-plugin-proposal-class-properties)

To enable the plugins, you'd add code like this to your Babel configuration:

```js
plugins = [
  '@babel/plugin-proposal-class-properties',
  ['@babel/proposal-decorators', {decoratorsBeforeExport: true}],
];
```

## LitElement decorators

LitElement provides the following decorators:

> *   <code>[customElement](https://lit-element.polymer-project.org/api/modules/_lit_element_.html#customelement)</code>. Define a custom element.

Reviewer: These links are not working.

Author: Oops. Yeah, that is some bad convert-from-Docs markup there.

> *   <code>[eventOptions](https://lit-element.polymer-project.org/api/modules/_lit_element_.html#eventoptions)</code>. Add event listener options to a listener added in your template.

Reviewer: This sentence is confusing. Maybe something like:

```suggestion
*   <code>[eventOptions](https://lit-element.polymer-project.org/api/modules/_lit_element_.html#eventoptions)</code>. Add options to an event listener in your template.
```

Author: Yeah, it's an awkward sentence. Maybe "Specify options for a declarative event listener?"

> *   <code>[property](https://lit-element.polymer-project.org/api/modules/_lit_element_.html#property)</code> and <code>[internalProperty](https://lit-element.polymer-project.org/api/modules/_lit_element_.html#internalproperty)</code>. Define properties.

Reviewer 2: `internalProperty` link doesn't work.

*   <code>[query](https://lit-element.polymer-project.org/api/modules/_lit_element_.html#query)</code>, <code>[queryAll](https://lit-element.polymer-project.org/api/modules/_lit_element_.html#queryAll)</code>, and <code>[queryAsync](https://lit-element.polymer-project.org/api/modules/_lit_element_.html#queryAsync). </code>Create a property getter that returns specific elements from your component's render root.

> *   <code>[queryAssignedNodes](https://lit-element.polymer-project.org/api/modules/_lit_element_.html#queryAssignedNodes)</code>. Create a property getter that returns the children assigned to a specific slot. 

Reviewer 2: `queryAssignedNodes ` link doesn't work.

Author: Should be fixed now...

All of the decorators can be imported directly from the <code>lit-element</code> module.

```js
import {eventOptions} from 'lit-element';
```

## Other document updates

<<<The following sections belong  in the individual chapters.>>>

### customElement

<<<Maybe add this to the to-be-written Writing Components Overview>>>

Use the `customElement` decorator on your component class to define a custom element:

```js

> @customElement('my-element)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
@customElement('my-element')
```

Author: Oops. This section ("other document updates") was intended as a set of smaller updates for other docs, and I accidentally left it in here when I converted the doc to markdown. Will fix this before I submit those, just wanted to add an FYI why I was skipping these suggestions.

```js
@eventOptions({capture: true})
_clickHandler() { ... }

render() { 
  return html`
    <button @click=${this._clickHandler}>Click me!</button>
  `;
}
```

The object passed to `eventOptions` is used as the `options` parameter to `addEventListener`.

More information:

*   [EventTarget.addEventListener()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/EventTarget/addEventListener) on MDN for a description of the event listener options.

### property and internalProperty

<<<The properties chapter already includes property, need to integrate the description of `internalProperty` there ... Unless this is a sufficiently rare use case that it doesn't need to be in the main Properties guide? >>>

Use the `property` and `internalProperty` decorators to declare properties (instead of the static `properties` property).

Use the `property` decorator to declare properties:

```js
@property({type: String})
mode = 'auto';

@property({attribute: false})
data = {};
```

Use `internalProperty` for private or protected properties that should trigger an update cycle. Properties declared with `internalProperty` shouldn't be referenced from outside the component.

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```js
```

@internalProperty()

> _active = false;

Reviewer: Is there a reason to use `_active` instead of:

```suggestion
private active = false;
```

I guess guide is more expansive than just TypeScript. It might be fun to use the new private properites syntax.

```suggestion
#active = false;
```

Author: Yeah, changed this to `protected active`. Going to avoid the more novel #private syntax for now.

---
layout: guide
title: Using decorators
slug: decorators
---

Decorators are special declarations that you can use when defining classes, class methods, and class fields. LitElement supplies a set of decorators that reduce the amount of boilerplate code you need to write when defining a component. 

For example, the `customElement` and `property` decorators make a basic element definition more compact:

```js
import {LitElement, html, customElement, property} from 'lit-element';

@customElement('my-element')
class MyElement extends LitElement {

 // Declare observed properties
 @property()
 adjective = 'awesome';

>  // Define the element's template

Author: As in, "Declare the element's template"?

>  // Define the element's template

Reviewer 3: Oh yeah... I was reading this as the comment on the render method, ie "Declare the element's render method". I've never really liked the "define the template" terminology because it doesn't correspond to anything super concrete. A render method is usually composed of several templates, and doesn't even need to return a TemplateResult technically.

>  // Define the element's template

Author: Hm... I get where you're going, but the current docs are all kind of written this way. We have a "Templates" chapter, not a "Render" chapter.  Suggest we discuss this outside the PR, maybe make a larger change to the docs structure later?

>  // Define the element's template

Reviewer 3: Sounds good

 render() {
   return html`<p>your ${this.adjective} template here</p>`;
 }
}
```

> 

Author: Added equivalent code for demonstration purposes.

## Enabling decorators

To use decorators, you need to use a compiler such as Babel or the TypeScript compiler.

<div class="alert alert-info">

**The decorators proposal**. Decorators are a stage 2 proposal for addition to the ECMAScript standard, which means they're not implemented in browsers yet. Compilers like Babel provide support for proposed features like decorators by compiling them into JavaScript a browser can run.

</div>

### To use decorators with TypeScript

> To use decorators with TypeScript, enable the `experimentalDecorators` compiler option.

Author: On [TypeScript], or on [experimentalDecorators]? (That is, a general link, or a specific one?)

> To use decorators with TypeScript, enable the `experimentalDecorators` compiler option.

Author: Added one for TypeScript itself.

> To use decorators with TypeScript, enable the `experimentalDecorators` compiler option.

Reviewer 3: Maybe on "decorators with TypeScript" to this: https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/decorators.html
